━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
Japan AI Guide — Transcript
Date : 2026-05-14
Time : 17:57
File : audio_lesson_01.mp3
Size : 9.2 MB | Chunks: 11
Keywords: Easy Japanese, NHK World Japan, Ericko Kojima, Michael Reese, Tam, Kaito, Mia, Japan, Tokyo, Harusan House, Asking for Directions, Japanese culture, Japanese language, New course, Share house, Lesson one, Harusan Hausu wa doko desu ka?, Doko desu ka?, Japanese particles (Wa), すみません, トイレ, あそこです, Places to visit, Attractions
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━


[── Chunk 1/11 | 00:00 ──]
It's time for Easy Japanese from NHK World Japan. Today we are happy to announce that we're beginning a new course. I'm Ericko Kojima. And I'm Michael Reese. And we're going to have fun learning useful expressions together. And then you can try them out when you come to Japan. We'll also be talking about Japanese culture and places to visit. Today, Asking for Directions. Later in the program we'll talk about how the Japanese language sounds. The main character in our skit is Tam. She's a cheerful and active student from Vietnam. Time Study Japanese

[── Chunk 2/11 | 01:00 ──]
on her own and can handle simple conversations. She wanted to learn more about the language and culture and the attractions of Japan's various regions, so she decided to come study at a university in Tokyo. In lesson one, Tam has just arrived in Japan for the first time and is trying to find Harusan House. It's the share house where she'll be staying. A share house is a rented accommodation with multiple residents. Each has a private room, but they all use common spaces such as the living room and the kitchen. That way, they can interact with one another. A fashionable woman and a male student happened to walk by, so Tam decided to ask them for directions. Listen to the skit for lesson one to find out how things went.

[── Chunk 3/11 | 02:00 ──]
あれ、僕たちのうちだよね すぐ近くです 一緒に行きましょう こっちだよ はい、ありがとうございます Line by Lineに行きましょう Tam asks すみません Excuse me ハルサンハウスはどこですか? Where is ハルサンハウス? カイトー、マイルスチューデントは ハルサンハウス? ハルサンハウス? あれ、僕たちのうちだよね Oh, that's where we live Then, Mia, the woman, says すぐ近くです 一緒に行きましょう。 カイトーアドス。 こっちだよ。 タム、リプライズ。 はい。ありがとうございます。 OK。 ありがとうございます。 2番目は、

[── Chunk 4/11 | 03:00 ──]
residence of Harusan House. Today's key phrase is, where is Harusan House? If you learn this pattern, you'll be able to ask for directions. Here's an explanation of the key phrase. Harusan House is the name of the sharehouse. Wa is the particle indicating a topic. So, Erika, what is a topic? It's a point of a conversation, what you're talking about. In this sentence, Harusan House is is the topic. Doko desu ka means where is today's point when you want to ask for directions at the particle wa after the name of the place and say Doko desu ka?

[── Chunk 5/11 | 04:00 ──]
is an interrogative meaning where. Adding this and raising the intonation creates a question. So you add what doko desu ka after the name of the place, right? That's right. Now let's practice. Listen and repeat. Doko desu ka? Arusan hausu wa doko desu ka? So how did you do? Listen to a conversation about asking for directions. Imasen, toire wa doko desu ka? Soko desu. Review the conversation.

[── Chunk 6/11 | 05:00 ──]
すみませんトイレはどこですか? Excuse me, where is the toilet? When you want to ask someone a question, first start out with excuse me すみません The toilet is トイレ which comes from the English word it sounds like あそこです It's over there あそこ is over there Various expressions tell you how to get somewhere but people will also usually point in the general direction so don't worry Now listen and repeat out loud どこですか? トイレはどこですか? みません トイレはどこですか?

[── Chunk 7/11 | 06:00 ──]
試してみてください。 ステーションの方がいいのか、 何を言うか? ステーションは、 駅。 行きましょう。 コンビニの店にある。 コンビニは、 コンビニ。 あなたは言うことができるの?

[── Chunk 8/11 | 07:00 ──]
That brings us up to today's bonus phrase. In this section, we introduce a phrase from the skit that will come in handy if you memorize it exactly as it is. Today's phrase is from Tam's line, Arigatou gozaimasu. Arigatou gozaimasu is used to show appreciation, meaning thank you very much. You can use the shorter version, arigatou, but it's more polite to say arigatou gozaimasu. Now it's your turn. Arigatou gozaimasu. Okay then, listen to today's kit once again.

[── Chunk 9/11 | 08:00 ──]
あれ? 僕たちの家だよね すぐ近くです 一緒に行きましょう こっちだよ はい ありがとうございます お前 マイクル 日本語の音はどう思うの? まあ 音が短いような感じがするかもしれない そうです 日本語の音は一つのコンセンテンツと一つのヴァウルの音が作られている 音はスムーズでなくても多くのアクセントがあるので そういう意味で、誰が歌っているかも聞かれるようです。 全てのアクセントは? まあ、全然、アクセントの日本語は、 ピッチの中で、弱い音が出ています。 彼らは、ピッチが下がる場所に、 彼らは、彼らのメロディを確認しています。 例えば、

[── Chunk 10/11 | 09:00 ──]
means it rained. But if you pronounce it like this, the meaning would be candy dropped. Really? Yes. But don't worry. Even if you don't know the perfect pitch, as long as you pronounce everything in a flat manner, it will sound good enough. That's a relief. Japanese doesn't have that many sounds, so pronunciation is not that hard. After a while, the intonation will become second nature. Just keep your ears open. Okay, I'll do that. Did you enjoy today's easy Japanese? Please tune in next time.

[── Chunk 11/11 | 10:00 ──]
